# Platform Details | Universal Windows Platform

(This document is from the FMOD API User Manual 2.02.14 (2023-05-02). © 2023 Firelight Technologies Pty Ltd.)
<!-- This markdown is generated by docgen. Do not edit by hand. -->

  ## UWP Specific Starter Guide

 ### SDK Version

 FMOD is compiled using the following tools.

  - **Visual Studio** - version 2017 targeting platform toolset v141
 
 ### Compatibility

 FMOD supports devices of the below architectures running Windows 10.

  - **x86** - optimized with SSE3.
 - **x64** - optimized with SSE3 (and AVX if detected at runtime).
 - **arm** - optimized with VFPv2 (and NEON if detected at runtime).
 
 ### Libraries

 *The provided libs are import libraries which require the corresponding DLL to be present at runtime. Substitute $ARCH your desired architecture from the 'Compatibility' list above.*

 #### FMOD Core Engine library

  - **/api/core/lib/$ARCH/fmod.lib** - Release binary for production code (requires fmod.dll at runtime).
 - **/api/core/lib/$ARCH/fmodL.lib** - Release binary with logging enabled for development (requires fmodL.dll at runtime).
 
 
<pre class="ignore" style="white-space:normal;font:inherit;">
FMOD.rs searches <code>$CARGO_MANIFEST_DIR/lib/$CARGO_CFG_TARGET_ARCH/</code>
using Cargo standard search path manipulation for <code>fmodL.lib</code> or
<code>fmod.lib</code> depending on whether <code>cfg(debug_assertions)</code>
is true or false, respectively.
</pre>

#### FMOD Studio Engine library (used in conjunction with core library)

  - **/api/studio/lib/$ARCH/fmodstudio.lib** - Release binary for production code (requires fmodstudio.dll at runtime).
 - **/api/studio/lib/$ARCH/fmodstudioL.lib** - Release binary with logging enabled for development (requires fmodstudioL.dll at runtime).
 
 
<pre class="ignore" style="white-space:normal;font:inherit;">
FMOD.rs searches <code>$CARGO_MANIFEST_DIR/lib/$CARGO_CFG_TARGET_ARCH/</code>
using Cargo standard search path manipulation for <code>fmodstudioL.lib</code>
or <code>fmodstudio.lib</code> depending on whether
<code>cfg(debug_assertions)</code> is true or false, respectively.
</pre>

### Plugins

 FMOD includes a media foundation plugin codec that can optionally be included in your game.

  - **/api/plugins/media_foundation/lib/$ARCH/media_foundation.dll**
 
 This has been separated in order to support [Windows N](<https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/what-is-a-windows-7-n-edition-cc95bcfc-55dd-a11d-8120-7c0c1400c655>) by default - the media foundation plugin is NOT compatible with Windows N unless the user installs the appropriate Media Feature Pack for Windows.

 If included, FMOD can use the codec to support WMA, ASF, WMV, M4A and MP4 files.

 ### Permissions

 Some functionality inside of FMOD will require you set relevant capabilities in your manifest file.

  - **Microphone** - to make use of the [`System::record_start`](System::record_start) API, see Known Issues for further notes about recording.
 - **Internet (Client)** - to stream audio from the internet.
 - **Private Networks (Client & Server)** - to use FMOD profiler or FMOD Studio live update. See Known Issue for further notes about connecting.
 
 ### Thread Affinity

 All threads will default to [`ThreadAffinity::CoreAll`](ThreadAffinity::CoreAll), this is recommended due to the wide variety of PC hardware but can be customized with [`raw::FMOD_Thread_SetAttributes`](raw::FMOD_Thread_SetAttributes).

 ### Thread Priority

 The relationship between FMOD platform agnostic thread priority and the platform specific values is as follows:

  - [`ThreadPriority::Low`](ThreadPriority::Low) ~ THREAD_PRIORITY_BELOW_NORMAL
 - [`ThreadPriority::Medium`](ThreadPriority::Medium) ~ THREAD_PRIORITY_NORMAL
 - [`ThreadPriority::High`](ThreadPriority::High) ~ THREAD_PRIORITY_ABOVE_NORMAL
 - [`ThreadPriority::VeryHigh`](ThreadPriority::VeryHigh) ~ THREAD_PRIORITY_HIGHEST
 - [`ThreadPriority::Extreme`](ThreadPriority::Extreme) ~ THREAD_PRIORITY_TIME_CRITICAL
 - [`ThreadPriority::Critical`](ThreadPriority::Critical) ~ THREAD_PRIORITY_TIME_CRITICAL
 
 ### Known Issues

  -  Even after adding support for audio recording to your application manifest, you must still make sure to call [`System::record_start`](System::record_start) in the UI thread so the system can display a warning to the user. Calling from any other thread will return [`Error::OutputInit`](Error::OutputInit).

 
 -  FMOD Studio will not be able to connect to the engine if they are both running on the same machine. This is a restriction imposed by the Windows Universal Application environment.

 
 
 ## Performance Reference

 This section is a companion for the [CPU Performance](<https://fmod.com/resources/documentation-api?version=2.02&page=white-papers-cpu-performance.html>) white paper and serves as a quick reference of facts targeting this platform.

 ### Format Choice

 Each compression format provided in FMOD has a reason for being included, the below list will detail our recommendations for this platform. Formats listed as primary are considering the best choice, secondary formats should only be considered if the primary doesn't satisfy your requirements.

  - **Vorbis**: Primary format for all sounds.
 - **FADPCM**: Secondary format if Vorbis CPU usage is too high for low spec machines.
 - **PCM**: Not recommended.
 - **XMA**: Unavailable.
 - **AT9**: Unavailable.
 
 ### Channel Count

 To give developers an idea about the costs of a particular format we provide synthetic benchmark results. These results are based on simple usage of the FMOD Studio API using recommended configuration settings.

 #### Settings

  - **Real channel count:** 64
 - **Sample rate:** 48KHz
 - **Speaker mode:** Stereo
 - **DSP block size:** 1024 samples
 
 #### Test Device

  - **CPU:** Intel(R) Core(TM) i5-6400T CPU @ 2.20GHz
 - **OS:** Microsoft Windows [Version 10.0.19042.867]
 
 #### Results

  - **DSP with Vorbis:** 6.45% (+/- 0.66%)
 - **DSP with FADPCM:** 3.00% (+/- 0.34%)
 - **DSP with PCM:** 1.33% (+/- 0.22%)
 - **Update at 60 FPS:** 0.77% (+/- 0.19%)
 
